.\" Process this file with
.\" Copyright 2006 by Troy Heber - taken directly from svn-backup-dumps
.\" Copyright (c) 2006 CollabNet.
.\" Permission is granted to everyone to use and distribute this work,
.\" without limitation, modified or unmodified, in any way, for any purpose.
.\" groff -man -Tascii svn-backup-dumps.1
.\"
.TH svn\-backup\-dumps 1  "2006-11-09"
.SH NAME
svn\-backup\-dumps \- Create dumpfiles to backup a subversion repository.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B svn\-backup\-dumps 
.I <repos>
.I <dumpdir>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B svn\-backup\-dumps
creates dumpfiles from a subversion repository.  It is intended for
use in cron jobs and post-commit hooks.
.PP
The basic modes of operation are:
.IP \(bu
Create a full dump (revisions 0 to HEAD)
.IP \(bu
Create incremental dump containing at most N revisions.
.IP \(bu
Create incremental single-revision dumps (for use in post-commit).
.PP
Dumpfiles are named in the format
.IR basename . rev .svndmp
or
.IR basename . rev . rev .svndmp,
where
.I basename
is the repository directory name, and the
.I rev
arguments are the first and last revision numbers represented in the
dumpfile, zero-padded to 6 digits.
.PP
Optionally,
.B svn\-backup\-dumps
can compress dumpfiles with
.BR gzip " or " bzip2 ,
and can transfer them to another host using FTP or SMB (using
.BR smbclient ).
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show program's version number and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show this help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-b
Compress the dump using
.BR bzip2 .
.TP
.B \-\-deltas
This is passed through to
.BR "svnadmin dump" .
.TP
.BI \-c " count"
Maximum number of revisions per dumpfile.
.TP
.B \-o
Overwrite files.
.TP
.B \-O
Overwrite all files.
.TP
.B \-q
Quiet.
.TP
.BI \-r " rev"
Specify a single-revision dumpfile.
.PP
.RI "\fB\-t\fR ftp:" host : user : password : path
.PD 0
.TP
.RI "\fB\-t\fR smb:" share : user : password : path
.PD
Transfer dumps to another machine using the FTP or SMB protocols.
.I path
is where to store the dumpfiles on the remote server; any occurrence of
.I %r
in the path is replaced by the repository name.  Support for "smb:"
requires the
.B smbclient
program.
.TP
.B \-z
Compress the dump using
.BR gzip .
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
To create a full dump of all revisions of a repository
.IR /srv/svn/foo " in the directory " /var/backup/svn :
.PP
svn\-backup\-dumps /srv/svn/foo /var/backup/svn
.PP
The dumpfile will be named
.I src.000000-NNNNNN.svndmp.gz
where
.I NNNNNN
is the head revision number.
.\"
.PP
To create incremental dumps containing at most 1000 revisions:
.PP
svn\-backup\-dumps \-\-deltas \-z \-c 1000 /srv/svn/foo /var/backup/svn
.PP
If the youngest revision is 2923, it creates the following files:
.IP
.PD 0
foo.000000-000999.svndmp.gz
.IP
foo.001000-001999.svndmp.gz
.IP
foo.002000-002923.svndmp.gz
.PD
.PP
If run again, later, when the youngest revision is 3045, it creates
these two files:
.IP
.PD 0
foo.002000-002999.svndmp.gz
.IP
foo.003000-003045.svndmp.gz
.PD
.PP
Note that it does not remove the redundant file
foo.002000-002923.svndmp.gz.
.\"
.PP
To create incremental single-revision dumps from a post-commit hook:
.PP
svn\-backup\-dumps \-r $rev $repos /var/backups/svn
.PP
where
.IR $rev " and " $repos
are variables previously set in the post-commit script from its command
line.  The dumpfile name will be in the form
.IR foo.000352.svndmp .
.\"
.PP
To send the dumpfiles to the SMB share
.I \\\\\\\\ERNEST\\\\BACKUPS
in a directory
.I \\\\svn\\\\foo
with user
.I svnuser
and password
.IR w0rth1ng :
.IP
svn\-backup\-dumps \-t "smb://ERNEST/BACKUPS:svnuser:w0rth1ng:svn/%r
/srv/svn/foo /tmp/tmpbackup
.PP
Note that the
.I %r
in the path is replaced by the repository name
.BR foo .
Note also that a local backup directory is required, at present, even
when using the
.B \-t
option.
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Voluntary contributions made by many individuals.  Copyright \(co 2006 CollabNet.
