.\" svnwrap.1
.\" Copyright 2006 by Peter Samuelson
.\" Permission is granted to everyone to use and distribute this work,
.\" without limitation, modified or unmodified, in any way, for any purpose.
.TH SVNWRAP 1 "2006-04-21"
.\"
.SH NAME
svnwrap \- Umask wrapper for subversion client commands
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B svnwrap
.RB { program }
.RI [ args... ]
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B svnwrap
is a simple shell script to work around permission problems when
sharing Subversion repositories between multiple local users.
.B svnwrap
can be used either by specifying a particular
.B subversion
client command on the command line, or by invoking it by the same name
as the desired client command, via a symlink.
.PP
.B svnwrap
sets the
.I umask
to 002, then launches the appropriate
.B subversion
client command.  For complicated reasons, this is needed when using the
clients with
.IR BDB -format
repositories, but not for
.IR FSFS -format
ones.
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
To create a new BDB-format shared repository (note that FSFS-format
shared repositories should also be created this way):
.PP
svnwrap\ svnadmin\ create\ \-\-fs\-type=bdb
.I /path/to/repo
.br
chgrp\ \-R
.I shared_group\ /path/to/repo
.PP
The following line in
.I /etc/inetd.conf
can be used to serve
.I svn://
URLs:
.PP
svn\ stream\ tcp\ nowait
.I my_svn_user
/usr/bin/svnwrap\ svnserve\ svnserve\ \-i\ \-r
.I /srv/svn
.PP
The following commands enable use of
.B svnwrap
for local
.I file:///
and remote
.I svn+ssh://
URLs:
.PP
ln\ \-s\ /usr/bin/svnwrap\ /usr/local/bin/svn
.br
ln\ \-s\ /usr/bin/svnwrap\ /usr/local/bin/svnserve
.PP
.B svn
is used for local
.I file:///
URLs, and
.B svnserve
is invoked by remote users of
.I svn+ssh://
URLs.
.SH BUGS
If you symlink the
.B svn
binary to
.BR svnwrap ,
as shown in one of the examples,
.I all local users' working copies will also use the new
.IR umask .
Be sure to warn your users about this, as security-related surprises
are rarely pleasant.
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR svnserve (8),
.BR svn (1),
.BR svnlook (1).
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
.B svnwrap
and this manual were written by Peter Samuelson
.\" <peter@p12n.org>
for the Debian Project (but may be used by others).
